-: Welcome back.
In the previous lecture we have completed
about pulling a Docker image
from Docker Hub and then running it on our local mission.
So now in 04 we are going to build a new Docker image
and then run it on locally
and then push it to the Docker hub.
Okay, so let's see how we are going to do it, right?
So as a prerequisite step
please ensure you have your own Docker hub account.
So you can go
to hub.docker.com and then create your account here.
Okay? So you can click on sign up for Docker hub
and then provide your docker ID email
and then password to complete those things.
Okay, so I already have the Docker hub account.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to log in.
Okay? So sign up
for your Docker Hub account and then put it ready.
Okay, now moving on.
The next thing is to run the
base Nginx container, right?
So why we are going to run the base Nginx container.
What we are going to do
as part of this complete step series
like we have a Nginx docker files folder here.
Inside that you can find docker file and then index.html.
So whenever you run a base Nginx image, it is going to
provide the Nginx related simple index.html.
So what we are going to do is we are going to
change that to a different index dot html
and then so I'm going to
say welcome to stack simplify Nginx V one custom image,
right, in the index.html.
And in my docker file I'm going to say get the base image
from Nginx and then copy my index.html
whatever I have created to the USR share Nginx html, okay?
Which is nothing but inside the image to this location.
Copy it.
And now if I run it
so obviously instead of default Nginx index.html
we are going to get our index start html.
So that image, whatever we are going to build it
we are going to push it to our docker hub.
Okay? So let's see how we are going to do it.
So first before that let's get our base Nginx image
and then run it and then see what it is showing.
Okay, so in our previous step three, means, like in
in section three what we have done is we have
used the docker pool command to get the image
and then run it using Docker run.
But ideally if you want to run it, you can
even without using the docker pool
you can directly use the docker run to do it.
Okay? So what I'm doing here is using docker run
I'm saying - - name
and then I'm saying my Nginx default.
Okay? So my container name I'm giving
as my Nginx default and port mappings
my local host is 80 and also the container port is 80
and the image name is Nginx.
Okay? So you can search for Nginx here, right?
So, and then you get that default Nginx image, okay?
So that one we are going to use.
So I'm going to say docker run Nginx, okay, I'm copying it,
and then going back okay to my terminal and then testing it.
So unable to find the image locally.
So it'll go and then download that image, okay
pulling from the library Nginx.
So once it is downloaded
it is going to automatically start also.
Okay? So it's downloaded and then started.
So let's see, Docker PS, right?
So whenever we see it is already running
so let's go to local host and then see what happens.
Okay? So we can minimize this.
So we can see here we are getting welcome to Nginx.
So this is the default index.html of Nginx.
So we are going to edit it and then change it.
So that's what we are going to build a new docker image.
Very simple docker image we are going to build
with docker file.
So let's see how we are going to do it.
Okay, so let's go here in the step two, create a docker file
and copy our customized index.html here.
So to do so what we are going to do is
so we can go to any of the folders here, okay?
And in documents, I'll create a folder call M K D A R, okay
Nginx image, okay?
Inside that I'm first I'm going to create
that docker file, okay?
So in docker file I'm going to copy these two lines
which is nothing but from Nginx
and then copy the index.html
from local two, this location, right?
So let me copy these two lines and then paste it, right?
So I have created the docker file.
So I also should have the index.html here, right?
So I'll create the index.html
and I'll say welcome to stack simplify.
And I'm going to say Nginx,
I'm not following any HTML standards
or anything here, I'm saying Nginx, V1
and this is going to be a custom image, okay?
And this is a simple file, okay?
Index.html.
So now what we are going to do is we are going to
build a docker image and then run it locally, right?
So docker build -t and then you are dockerhubID/
and your image name and then the tag you are going to use
and where you are going to build it dot, means like
from current location it need to take the docker file
and then also the respective index.html file
that's the reason, dot.
So if it is, in your environment means
like you have your own docker hub ID, right?
So whatever you have created as part of prerequisites
so you need to replace this command
with your docker hub ID here, okay?
So just if, if your docker hub ID is ABC
then just put the ABC here
and then copy this entire thing in there, run it, okay?
So docker and then build the image -t
which is nothing but a tag name, right?
So stack simplifies /myNginx_imageone:V1
and then dot.
So okay, build
from the current location means the current location.
I have that docker file.
So build from there.
Okay, so I'm copying this and then I will run it now.
Okay, so now if I see docker images, my new image, okay
so Nginx already downloaded
and using that it created a tag,
simplifymyNginx_imageone
with V1 tag and it is created four seconds before.
Okay, so now I need to run it, right?
So let me clear this and Docker run
-: -name and my image name is going to
be my Nginx1 and port mapping is 80:80, right?
So if you don't stop this
then we are going to get the error.
So let's go ahead and then stop our earlier one.
So if you see my Nginx default is also using 80
for local mission, right?
So let me stop the old one, okay?
And then now come back here and then run this one.
Okay, so docker run my Nginx1 with port 80:80 and
my image name is
tag simplifies last my Nginx image 1 V1.
Okay, so let's run it in your case
you just replace it with your, your docker ID here, okay?
Okay, you have run it now.
So let's go to local host and then check it.
So it's coming.
Computer: Welcome to voice -
Narrator: One second.
Ideally it should come.
So it's coming from the local cash.
So let me try one more time.
Yeah, so now it is coming.
Okay, so it it came
from the local cash whenever we tried here.
So let me close this.
So welcome to stack simplify Nginx V1 custom
image we have got it.
Okay, so now we have completed building the docker image
and then running it.
Okay? So if you want, you can even stop it.
Okay? So docker PS it is running now
docker stop my Nginx 1, okay?
And if you say docker PS no other containers are running
but the stopper containers
you can see my Nginx 1 and then my Nginx default.
Okay? So if you want to remove them
you can even remove them.
Okay? So I'll say my Nginx 1
and then all these things you can do via additional command.
Now, docker...
PS - a - q, right?
Which is nothing, but you'll give the docker image
docker container IDs, okay?
So you can even remove them using this command.
Okay? So now if you say docker, PS - a, nothing is there.
Okay? So that's the reason why we are going to
use -q is because to get that docker container IDs or
docker image IDs and then pass this output
to another command like this.
Okay? So earlier we discussed this, right?
So for that purpose I have excluded this command
and then shown it even
though it is not in our current things, okay.
So now moving on,
we are going to tag and push the docker image to docker hub.
So currently our docker image name is
myNginx_image1:V1 okay?
So, but what I felt is like
or V1 is not my, not looks good.
So we'll say we want - release, okay?
So then if I want to change my docker images tag name
then we can use that docker tag, right?
So docker tag command to do that.
So let's do that now.
So docker images
and we'll have the tag simplify myNginx image one.
So let's say docker tag
and then stack simplify my Nginx image V1
change it to V1 - release.
Okay? So let's change that.
Right, and if you see the images,
so now you have both V1 and then also V1 release.
Okay? So now let's push the V1 release
to our Docker hub account.
Okay, in your case, please replace your docker hub ID
at every place wherever you see the stack simplify, right?
So now I'm going to push this.
Okay, it is pushing to my docker hub.
So let's see once it is pushed.
Okay, so let's go here,
docker hub, right?
So this is my dockor hub and my repositories are here.
So let's wait for it to be completely pushed,
and once it is pushed we can crosscheck
whether it is available on our docker hub repositories
or not.
Okay? It is pushed now, okay so lets see.
The next step is to verify the same on the docker hub.
Okay, so let's go here and then refresh it.
And you can see my Nginx_image1
just now came updated a few seconds ago
and you can see the tag name is V1 -release.
So this completes the creation of a new docker image
run it as a container and then push to the docker hub.
Okay? So we have seen that in a series of five steps.
Okay? So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.